If hospitalization taken by an employee is for investigation purposes, will such expenses be covered?
If there is no active line of treatment and the hospitalization done is just for investigation and observation purposes, then it is not payable.
Is hospitalisation for injection like Herceptin, Lucentis etc. payable?
No, hospitalisation only for injection administration is not payable.
Are genetic disorders payable?
Yes
How much is my co-pay?
10% for non-parent claims and 20% for parent’s claims.
Will the Top Up Policy be valid even if I quit HCL during the Policy Period?
No. Top Up policy is not portable
Who all from my family can be covered as dependents under this policy?
The policy coverage is available for a maximum of 7 dependents in the family of an employee.
I do not have father and mother. Can I add my guardians and grandparents under Medical Insurance?
Employee cannot cover anyone apart from the following member as their dependent under Medical Insurance.
How is the new policy beneficial for me.
As part of HCL's Employee First philosophy we commit ourselves towards creating a unique employee organization by maintaining an industry best medical care plan which includes not just immediate family but also provides for parents under dependent coverage.
Is Stem Cell related surgery payable?
Yes, 100 percent payable for all types of treatments as approved by FDA and ICMR.
Can I add a dependent who is not in India?
This policy covers only those dependents who are in India and expenses incurred in India alone will be processed.
What is the procedure to submit pre & post hospitalization bills?
Raise a new claim in Medical application for Pre & post hospitalization and submit the bills along with a photocopy of the discharge summary.
What treatments are covered under Critical Illness?
List of Critical Illness is available in Annexure 2.
What is the definition of Planned Hospitalization?
Any hospitalization on account of treatment for an illness or injury of an already established and provisional diagnosis until and unless it requires an emergency care would be termed as a ‘Planned Hospitalization’.
What treatments are covered under Day Care?
List of Day Care procedures is available in Annexure 1.
I am at onsite. Can I cover my dependents in India?
Yes. The dependents in India can be covered through HCL facilitated Medical Insurance program- EMCP (Extended Medical Coverage Program).
Is Co-pay norm applicable in case of an emergency?
Yes.
What would happen in case employee fails to inform the TPA 72 hours to 3 days prior to the hospitalization?
In such cases, an additional co-pay of 5 percent will be applicable.
How can we avail Cashless Hospitalization?
If you are planning the treatment in network hospital, then you may avail this facility through cashless hospitalization.
Is multifocal lens payable?
No, it is not payable.
What is the SLA to settle the Reimbursement claims?
21 days upon submission of all the required documents
Can I have my father and mother-in-law as dependent?
No, you can only have one set of parents as dependents either your parents or parents-in-law, there cannot be any cross combination.
Can I nominate my parents-in-law instead of my own parents or vice versa?
Yes. Employee can declare either set of parents however the declaration can be done during the enrolment period only
Will the co-pay be applicable to capped Ailments also?
No. Co-Pay is not applicable on Capped Ailments.
Are pre and post Hospitalization Expenses in Maternity covered?
Pre & Post-hospitalisation expenses are not covered under maternity.
Is treatment towards psychological problem or depression payable?
Treatments related to psychological problems are not payable
Is Pre-Existing disease covered?
Yes, all pre-existing diseases are covered.
Is Congenital external diseases covered?
Covered but only for non-cosmetic reasons.
How is enrolment lock in for 3 years in favour of me.
Employees opts India Medical Insurance plan for the unseen medical exigency.
Are the premium rates fixed for the complete lock in period of 3 years?
No. The premium rates communicated will be applicable only for the current policy period of FY 17 to 18.
Do I have to undergo a medical checkup every year?
No, if the insured renews the policy continuously without a break and there is no change in the policy terms and conditions.
Are all the major corporate hospitals on the network?
We have a network of over 4000 hospitals for you to choose from Network Locator.
Do you offer individual policies and group policies?
We offer both, group and individual policies.
How long is the policy valid for?
Apollo Munich offers policies with option of 1 and 2 years policy period which can be renewed every year
Is cashless facility available across all hospitals?
The cashless facility is available only at the hospitals which are in our network.
What is a waiting period?
A waiting period is the length of time the insured have to wait before being eligible for Health Policy benefits.
Will I get cashless at government institutions like AIIMS/TMH/ARMY Referral hospitals?
No, this facility does not extend to government hospitals.
What is Health Insurance policy?
Health Insurance policy provides protection against medical expenses that you might incur during hospitalization due to illness, disease or accident.
Is Health Insurance the same as Life Insurance?
No, Health Insurance is not the same as Life Insurance. 
Do I need to send my premium payment with the application form?
Yes, you need to provide premium payment along with the application form.
What is a Health Card?
A health card is a card that comes along with the Policy.
What is cashless hospitalization?
Cashless Hospitalization is one of the two methods of effectively utilizing your health insurance cover.
On hospitalization, what is the time frame for intimation to the TPA or the Insurance Company?
You are required to intimate the TPA or your insurer within 24 hours of hospitalization.
What do you mean by Waiting Period?
The duration only after which you can make a claim is called the waiting period.
What are the different types of Claims?
Member Claim and Network Claim (for Hospital)
Should the claim be submitted with the insurance company or with PHS?
Preferably with PHS only.
Who is a third party administrator?
A Third Party Administrator is an IRDA approved specialized health care service provider.
What is the maximum number of claims allowed over a year?
Any number of claims is allowed during the policy period.
Does pre-existing cover starts after 4 years?
The Policy covers expenses incurred for the treatment of diseases that you have before taking the Policy.
Can I cover my family member in this policy?
You can cover your family members as given below in a single Policy on Individual Sum Insured basis.
Will I get tax benefit if I cover my family on individual Sum Insured basis?
Yes, you will get Tax benefit under section 80D.
What is the minimum and maximum deductible in this plan?
You can choose minimum of Rs. 200000 and maximum of Rs. 500000 aggregate deductible in this policy.
What is the entry & exit age for this policy?
This Policy, one can be a proposer under the Policy from the age of 18 years to 65 years.
In case of self financing, can the client apply for cashless?
Yes, Cashless can be applied through hospital.
What are the eligibility criterias?
Our Travel Insurance policy is available for all ages between 6 months to 70 yrs.
What is the minimum period for a trip to be insured?
Our Travel Plans provide coverage to travel trips as short as 1 to 4 days.
Does one have to go through any medical examination?
No, there is no medical examination required upto the age of 70 years.
Does the Policy cover pre existing disease?
This policy does not cover pre-existing diseases.
Is Travel Insurance mandatory?
Travel Insurance is not mandatory in India.
Can the plan coverage period be reduced?
No refund is allowed for an early return to India.
Can one avail of cashless facility for Hospitalization?
Yes we extend Cashless Facility for hospitalization.
Where can I get the list of Hospitals extending Cash Facility?
There are no standard lists of Hospitals.
Will the claims be settled on return to India?
Except in the case of Hospitalization, claims are settled once the Insured is back in India
Is loss of passport covered?
Yes, passport loss is covered in the policy.
Are ambulance charges covered under the Policy?
Emergency Medical Expenses includes ambulance service (to or from the Hospital).
Can I get Cash Less facility and Reimbursement within 30 days of policy commencement?
Mediclaim policies have a waiting period of 30 days.
What are the minimum and maximum policy durations?
Individual Healthline will be issued for a period of 1 year only.
Can I avail this policy if I am not an Indian National but living in India?
Yes, foreigners living in India can be covered under a Health Insurance Policy. 
Can I claim my dentist's bills?
Yes you can.
Do I get a free medical checkup every year if I do not claim?
No, you cannot claim cost of health checkup every year
Who will receive the claim amount if the insured dies at the time of treatment?
The claim amount is paid to the nominee of the insured.
when does a policy lapse?
A policy lapses when the policyholder fails to pay the premium even within the grace period.
how can i buy an insurance policy?
You can buy a policy though any of our sales personnel or directly on our website.
can a policy be surrendered if it is lapsed?
The policy cannot be surrendered while the policy is in the lapsed stage.
what is the expected time for my policy to be issued?
The time expected for the policy issuance is fifteen working days.
Do I really need health insurance if i am young?
Yes. You will need insurance.
Is Health Insurance the same as Life Insurance?
No.
What are the minimum and maximum policy durations?
Health insurance policies are general insurance policies usually issued for a period of 1 year only.
Who is a Third Party Administrator?
A Third Party Administrator is an IRDA.
What is the maximum number of claims allowed over a year?
Any number of claims is allowed during the policy period.
What are the documents required for buying a health insurance?
No documents are required for purchasing health insurance.
Is Mediclaim the same as health insurance?
Yes, it is the same.
Who is eligible to apply for cover?
Almost anyone can purchase a HealthCare International medical policy.
Am I covered if I get injured in a terrorist incident?
Yes
Is dental treatment covered?
Yes
What is "Medical Policy"?
Medical policies are documents that provide medical necessity and coverage guidelines for all of our medical-surgical products.